---
title: "Why Claudia"
date: 2017-08-24T21:30:54+10:00
draft: false
---

I was born in the southern part of Romania, by the Black Sea, in Constanta County.
Our family home, a mud-brick home, was built by my mother with her own hands. My dad was working as a construction engineer, designing and building a lot of the hotels on what is classified as the Gold Coast of Romania. I am the fourth sibling and came as a surprise to both mum and dad, about 10 years after the first three children.

My relationship with food and nature, started as soon as I could walk. I attribute my reverence for nature and honour of wholesome, nutritious food to the times I have spent as a tiny tot, alongside my family as well as the family of several bee hives. We were a big, happy family. Among the many vocation my father had, one of them was that of an Apiarist. He owned several bee hives, and as soon as the springtime was picking around the corner in that part of the country, we would organise the bee hives in specialised trucks, pack the mobile home and the kitchen and would go away for most of the year.
Our itinerary was varied, travelled around the country, around the Danube Delta and other picturesque places so the bees would collect different kinds of honey such as acacia, linden, canola, forest honey and so on.
Dad always looked for serene, quiet and peaceful environments to settle in. He would travel on his motorbike and check the places we would settle in for the next few months; it was like he was looking for the earth to speak to him as if the place chose him as much as he chose the place. We would settle at the fringe of a forest, by the water, at the base of a hill, it was like he was looking for places where we could become part of nature, where we could be fully nurtured by nature. Once we established our abode, would choose the open fire place area, as well as create the outside cover for the kitchen, where mum cooked the most amazing meals.
My dear mum was an amazing cook. We were vegetarians yet this never left her with no options in the kitchen. We had abundant access to fresh fruits, vegetables, honey, oil, good quality flour and truly, my mum’s meals were always mouth-watering as well as nourishing and satisfying.

A lot of my days were spent it in nature...I did not have toys except one doll called Anca, but loved animals, loved the birds, the bees. I would spend hours just watching the wind moving a blade of grass while listening to beautiful birds chirping. Loved to lay on the ground and hear the wind rustling the trees. There was one specific place that I have very fond memories of. It was a place in the south-east of Romania, a town called Babadag in Tulcea County. The town is located on a small lake in the densely wooded highlands of Dobrogea. Rich in marshland and meadows, this is where flora and fauna specific to the region were so abundant.

It truly was a piece of heaven…

Straight after breakfast, I would meander daily to my special place in the meadow. It was not far from our cabin yet still far enough for a two-year-old to make it by foot. So, I would jump on the back of a tortoise and they would take me right to our secret place in the meadow. It’s like we were communicating in a language that only a little tot, the deer, the tortoises and the birds could communicate in; somehow, we understood each other perfectly as I was never afraid. I was mesmerised and fascinated by the deer, the hedgehogs, the tortoises, the birds, the butterflies and the bees, the plants, the flowers, the smells, the noises of insects rustling through the leaves. I called it My Fairy Place. I would lay on the thick grass by the small lake, and everyday a couple or sometimes three deer would come and visit me. On many occasions, they would lie next to me and I would fall asleep cocooned on the deer’s tummy.

What brought me back to mum and dad was the aroma of the eggplant and capsicum smoking on the open fire. I knew it was time to say goodbye to my beautiful friends and head back. There was a special tortoise, which I called Melly, that would line up to take me back to mummy and daddy. Don’t know if she was the same one every time, but to me, as a two-year-old they all looked the same.

Flash memories dislodged from some dusty recess in my mind, still linger. Memories of my beautiful mum and how effortlessly she prepared the most delicious meals, still endow me with creativity today. Like a true artist, my mother expressed her love and nurturing to family and guests through cooking. In mum’s kitchen, a three-course delicious and nutritious meal was ready in a nick of time. She believed that by becoming one with the plants, the fruits, the ingredients and singing to them while cooking, made the meal taste even more delicious.
My mother’s days were busy; she started very early in the morning by reading encouraging words, praying, and then, with utmost ease and grace would get on with her day as if she was ticking off a long-list in her invisible diary. Before 6am she would walk about 5kms to the farmer’s market, time in which she created in her head excellent recipes, which she put together upon her return. She shared with me how she can taste the food just as she was thinking of a recipe. She never followed a recipe book. This same kind of complexity of tastes and ability to taste the recipe before I cook it, I have inherited from her. The fussiness with flavors certainly was passed onto my genes and my children’s as well.

Mum’s garden was a continuation of the farmer’s market, it was an amazing place with unique vegetables, fruits, fresh herbs and berries, all organically grown. We also had a flower bed, which I learnt form a young age to care for.
My mother was a singer, a cook, an inspired teacher and mentor not only to me, but to my older sisters as well as many other ladies as her contemporaries. Every morning I would wake up to my mum’s beautiful, melodious voice and to the wonderful aromas coming from the kitchen.


I learnt a lot from my beautiful mum, and is this same legacy that I desire to keep on building upon and develop further. I desire to carry the torch and shine even brighter through love, laughter, wholefood creations and wholeness of mind, body, soul and spirit. These great food creations are born right here in my kitchen, as the memories of my childhood endow me with great creativity and animate me to share my love of nutritious cooking with You, and the World.
From my kitchen to yours with much love,
A well stoked kitchen is my second Fairy Place. I call it so because here is where a lot of magic and inspiration take place. I live in a beautiful apartment by the Brisbane river in the gorgeous, sunny state of Qld. My kitchen covers a quarter of the apartment. My well stocked kitchen includes the pantries, the cupboards, the fridges (yes, we do have two fridges) and the ingredients in my pantry are not confined to the pantry or the shelves, there are fresh herbs on the balcony, on the kitchen bench, jars of grains, legumes in the cupboards and nuts and seeds in one of the fridges. The other fridge is full to the brim with fresh fruits and vegetables as well as greens.
This is one of the challenges, because the weather is always warm, there are not many fruits or vegetables we can live out of the fridge.
Of course, there must be at least four different kinds of honey as well as honeycomb in my pantry.

As that tiny tot, watching the busy bees come and go from the bee hives to collect the pollen and then turning it into this fascinating, delicious, oozy, sweet liquid gold, has fully mesmerised me till today. The working of a bee is a legend understood by too few; a never-tiring little insect, one with nature producing one of the strongest antibiotics available to human kind, it’s got to be the most fascinating story ever encountered on this earth.
